---
published: true
featured_image: ./images/hello-world.jpg
title: 'Hello, Gridsome!'
intro: So I migrated my Laravel site over to using Gridsome in less than an hour, come along as I share my thoughts on using Gridsome as a first-timer.
date: '2019-12-10'
tags: ['JAMstack', 'gridsome', 'netlify']
---
Earlier this year [I wrote a post](/using-laravel-with-netlify/) about generating a static bundle of my Laravel site in order to host it statically on Netlify. This made take a closer look to the whole **JAMstack** shananigans.

I finally had some time left-over to give it an honest try. I was looking for something that utlizes Vue.js (💚) since that's my go-to javascript framework and started goofing around with two options; [Nuxtjs](https://nuxtjs.org/) and [Gridsome.](https://gridsome.org/)

After some evaluation I landed in **Gridsome**, it just felt "more me".

***

## So, what is Gridsome?

Gridsome is a free and open source Vue.js-powered framework for building blazing fast static websites. The use of a centralized data layer in GraphQL makes it super easy to query/filter data from whatever source you prefer – it can be an API, headless CMS or just plain markdown files. Gridsome is heavily inspired by Gatsby for React.

> Gridsome is a free and open source Vue.js-powered framework for building blazing fast websites & apps that are fast by default 🚀.

## Placeholder

In all fairness, my previous site had literally like one post and one sub page. Nothing fancy whatsoever.

However – taking into account I hadn't been using Gridsome **_at all_** past this point it only took me about an hour to create a site with the same content I used on my previous site, with some improvements.

That's pretty fast I think.

Before I knew it, I had a site up and running with the following features;

- Hot reloading
- Automatic code splitting
- Data sourcing using markdown
- Filterable taxonomies
- Paginated content
- Tailwindcss setup in combination with Purgecss
- Progressive image lazy loading that resizes and crops images on the fly

> 🤩 Not to mention, at this point the site was already ready to be deployed on Netlify with an SSL certificate.

Most of the features mentioned above comes out-of-the-box with Gridsome, however they have a really good [plugin ecosystem](https://gridsome.org/plugins/) which makes it easy to implement any additional features you might need.

For example, in order to be able to use markdown for my content I had to make use of said plugin ecosystem. You can read more about how to get started using markdown [here.](https://gridsome.org/plugins/@gridsome/transformer-remark)

Another thing that is required to manually setup is a css framework of choice (if any). For me, as always it's Tailwindcss. 

Adding Tailwindcss is basically just a one-liner and you're done. In case you want to use Purgecss you'd have to go a little further than that, still very easy to setup. In fact, there's a section explaining the process [in the documentation.](https://gridsome.org/docs/assets-css/#tailwind)

However, if you don't want to setup Tailwindcss + Purgecss on your own, there's a [plugin](https://gridsome.org/plugins/gridsome-plugin-tailwindcss) that will do it for you. 😅

## Conclusion

The guys behind Gridsome has truly done a wonderful job, the setup couldn't be easier and it's super fun to use.

Allthough this project isn't very old (initial release late 2018) it has already come a long way and is in my opinion a super viable resource for building static websites. The documentation might be lacking some content, however I expect this to only get better in the near future.

Considering how far this project has come already being so young and all I can't wait to see what's next! 👏🏻

.....WIP..... With all features you can just focus on what's important ....WIP......

So, if you're looking to get started on a JAMstack project using Vue.js and haven't tried Gridsome yet, you really – **like really really** should give it a try!
